README.md, before:

# FairX: A comprehensive benchmarking tool for model analysis using fairness, utility, and explainability

Fairness Benchmarking toolkit!

This includes data loader, custom dataset support, different fairness models, and wide range of evaluations. 

![FairX](fig/fairx-extended.png)


## Installation

```terminal
conda create -n fairx python=3.8
conda activate fairx

git clone git@github.com/fahim-sikder/fairx.git

cd fairx

pip install .
```


## Fair Models
### Pre-processing

- [x] Correlation Remover

### In-processing

- [x] TabFairGAN
- [x] Decaf
- [x] FairDisco
- [ ] FLDGMs
### Post-processing

- [x] Threshold Optimizers

## Evaluation Metrics

### Fairness Evaluation

- [x] Demographic Parity Ratio (DPR)
- [x] Equilized Odds Ratio (EOR)
- [x] Fairness Through Unawareness (FTU)
- [ ] Intersectional Bias (IB)

### Data Utility

- [x] Accuracy
- [x] AUROC
- [x] F1-score
- [x] Precision
- [x] Recall

### Synthetic Data Evaluation

- [x] $\alpha-$ precision
- [x] $\beta-$ recall
- [x] Authenticity

## Results

PCA and t-SNE plots of fair synthetic data, generated by TabFairGAN.

![PCA and t-SNE Plots](fig/tsne.png)

Intersectional Bias on `Adult-Income` dataset.

![Intersectional Bias](fig/ib.png)

More results coming soon!

## References

1. https://github.com/fairlearn/fairlearn
2. https://github.com/Trusted-AI/AIF360
3. https://github.com/shap/shap

Commit message:

added fairness vs data utility figure, readme

README.md, after:

# FairX: A comprehensive benchmarking tool for model analysis using fairness, utility, and explainability

Fairness Benchmarking toolkit!

This includes data loader, custom dataset support, different fairness models, and wide range of evaluations. 

![FairX](fig/fairx-extended.png)


## Installation

```terminal
conda create -n fairx python=3.8
conda activate fairx

git clone git@github.com/fahim-sikder/fairx.git

cd fairx

pip install .
```


## Fair Models
### Pre-processing

- [x] Correlation Remover

### In-processing

- [x] TabFairGAN
- [x] Decaf
- [x] FairDisco
- [ ] FLDGMs
### Post-processing

- [x] Threshold Optimizers

## Evaluation Metrics

### Fairness Evaluation

- [x] Demographic Parity Ratio (DPR)
- [x] Equilized Odds Ratio (EOR)
- [x] Fairness Through Unawareness (FTU)
- [ ] Intersectional Bias (IB)

### Data Utility

- [x] Accuracy
- [x] AUROC
- [x] F1-score
- [x] Precision
- [x] Recall

### Synthetic Data Evaluation

- [x] $\alpha-$ precision
- [x] $\beta-$ recall
- [x] Authenticity

## Results

PCA and t-SNE plots of fair synthetic data, generated by TabFairGAN.

![PCA and t-SNE Plots](fig/tsne.png)

Intersectional Bias on `Adult-Income` dataset.

![Intersectional Bias](fig/ib.png)

### Model's performance on Data utiliy vs Fairness

Here, we have compared all the model in our benchmarking tools on Data utility vs Fairness metrics. For the data utlity, we calculate the Accuracy and for the fairness, we measure Demographic Parity Ration (DPR) and Equilized Odds Ratio (EOR), and plot them in 3d.

![Fairness vs Data utlity](fig/fairnessvsdata.png)

More results coming soon!

## References

1. https://github.com/fairlearn/fairlearn
2. https://github.com/Trusted-AI/AIF360
3. https://github.com/shap/shap
